Hi there.
So in the last lesson we looked at our response which was use for money plodding R.S. understrapper
.
We looked at several different data structures on Vinita class to mount a ghosty does not just right
on for that we have this class called us collection's which is also from the Jellico jungle package
.
So we know that there is that collection interface which is singular and this one is brutal.
And this glass is also very similar to the artist's glass.
So it is a utility glass with lots of static methods on it helps us in doing stuff like soft things
searching on there are also some other exotic methods which we are going to see and many of them at
that's how excessive genetics notations.
OK.
So just don't worry about them.
I need to be clear when we get there.
So here in this demo how created this class called us collections them all under it is added to the
collections package and everything will be demonstrated in the main method.
So we'll be writing some code on some of the core in the interest of time has already been there done
so with this doc.
So the first method that I would like to demonstrate is idle.
OK.
And that takes two parameters.
One is a collection and others.
And Ari on all it does this I are in the means to that collection.
OK.
Undergirds a boolean flag.
So here we are creating an instance of idlest and we are adding three elements.
Raj John on one more John and we are also creating this are they OK.
Honored has only one element on.
So let's go ahead and enrich our alma mater.
So let's just say I don't see a passing list on the second one is Ari managed to spend less now says
UG on Goldsby is so much stronger.
And you can see all the elements right.
John and John on Anita has been added to the list.
OK.
Now you may recall this from our collection the is that there is a method called eye on right now that
are all very big a collection it are a collection of this collection.
OK.
So that is for adding a collection to another collection and if you want to budak we can make use off
of it is not as old as you have seen that in the last lesson and we have to just pass the RV right.
So that can also be done.
But this is likely to be faster than this approach.
OK.
So just keep that in mind.
So that's the out on the matter.
Our Next let's look at the Salk method.
So we have looked at the Salk method in Addis.
So it just looks identical.
So this would just sort the elements.
So in this case the parameter is just in last.
OK.
It's going to Sadako on this particular sock method they will use natural ordering which means that
elements of the list must implement built into office.
So let's just go ahead and simply invoke the sock method
and that's all there is to it.
So I didn't know.
OK.
And there is also another version which will take a competitor as an input in addition to the list in
which I guess it would use the comparative foreshortening.
OK.
You can take a look at the Kodak.
So that's the sorting method.
Next let's look at binary search.
Now if you recall binary search was also there not as glass.
So it is also here and not connections.
OK.
And this is the definition of it.
So binary search matter is making a collection and list here.
And it is searching for the key.
OK.
Now one thing I want to tell about the saut is as you can see it is only for a list but it's not making
any sense.
The reason for that is if you want a softer search you can actually use tricyclics and.
OK so there is a reset so you can just make use of die.
Now for Hasek said you cannot solve the elements if at all if you want to solve the elements of Hasek
which I think you might never want to do.
But if you want to do it.
So there are two approaches.
One is you can create a preset instance of instance on in the constructor one of the constructors accepts
and collection so you can just pass a Hosack or you can create an idealist on bass and use one of the
constructors which make a collection on pass Half-Chick and then you can invoke this method.
So OK so sauteeing is only for it.
And this particular in this particular class now come into a binary search site will be used for searching
for a key in the event last year and the requirement is that it needs to be soccer and if it is it then
it would be love.
To me the convexity would be longer to make read and is the size of the list.
Now you may recall that the list also has a called on base and that is linear.
The complexity is linear.
So this one is better than that.
Hello are here the elements that require us.
Each element has to be has to implement comparable indices.
That's what this binary search method requires now.
So the requirement is that the list and amounts have to be sorted.
Now if it does not Sautter then the specification says that behavior of this method is undefined.
OK so it might perform a search on it might return the index value so that I recall that it returns
the index if the element is found on.
It might return the value that it might find the element on it might return an index value even though
the even though it's not charted but the it will not be a binary search so it might just do a regular
linear search.
But if binary search has to be pulled from then it must remain.
Must be soccer.
Once again it takes only a list I'm not a set because how set is already really efficient it is.
It has constant time on plexis before searching for an intermediate.
Similarly research is also very efficient.
It is my job to make.
So it is on just similar to a binary search.
So that's the reason they did not provide another matter just for sex.
The regular set classes do not die.
OK they're very fast for such a right set implementations.
Regarding uniqueness and also fast lookups There is also a binary search matter for which Dick's competitor
.
OK so it picks a competitor to search for a D in the list of elements and uses the competitor to find
out.
OK so you can also read got from the API.
So let's just go ahead and search for something that you didn't see says on gold space.
Let's search for Mr John.
Is John there.
So this should done one.
And so on here.
Right.
So that is because John is at an expedition 1 OK so surgery and so fast.
An explosion.
So that's about the search.
Now there are a bunch of matters that are very straightforward.
So let's just go ahead and look at what they do.
And you should be very straightforward.
Just common this.
Ugh.
OK so let's just go ahead and look at each of them at us.
So the first one is the worst as you may expect it will just leave the elements in the list.
OK what was the list.
Next this VOP method.
It basically swaps two elements.
It's index and swaps them under is and method call frequency.
It just looks for this particular element and tells us how many times it appears in the list.
Next the shuffle exhibition closes the list.
So let's just go ahead and run them on we can discuss the book.
Here it is first the reverse list.
So this was the list on a thought John.
John onrush.
So this is the reverse list Saroj.
John John and Anita Kay.
All we are doing is invoking the article we were smattered on passing list.
Next is the worst.
Also written and so quiet so just keep that in mind it's just going to work on this list.
Next to a swap matter.
We are into changing the elements of zero on 3 so 0 is Rotch and 3 is unequal.
So as you can see here that Adman's got swapped.
Or maybe this list next is a frequency we are searching for John and John is appearing twice.
So just bending to next with a shuffle shuffle us and shuffling shuffling got.
OK if you run it one more time you may see a different order.
There you go.
Soit is mainly useful.
One instance where it can be used for example if you are implementing some kind of a card game.
If you want to shuffle the cards you can make use of this.
OK but parts will be inside the list or if you are holed up in some kind of a site.
If your home page displays a list of items so the list of items can be there for the entire day.
I know for each Oxus if the user is performing that is refreshing the home page.
You might want to just shuffle the list and show it to the user that made the list looks more are refreshed
and start off being stale so that you can you can make use of shuffling.
OK now so does the shuffling list on this Mock's one really just shouldn't go Max.
Element excessive or the maximum element of the given collection.
So does returning the max element.
And for that it makes use of the natural ordering off its elements.
So if you look at the natural order in here Raj is the Max.
Max enemy.
Anita is the middle of me so it makes use of Doc max and min and so Dodo's max and min.
So next let's look at this method called less Singleton not a singleton method it takes an element undertones
and set on the central how this particular element is really how any one element on the set is immutable
.
Which means that you cannot add any elements to it.
And this is one good idea.
We know that there is more on matter when you take a collection and really try to remove the elements
in the collection from the current action.
Not that's all it does.
I mean if you want to if you want the collection in book collection to have only a single element then
you can make use of this kind of method.
This idiom can be used for that.
Otherwise you will have to create a collection externally.
Then our Jaun then Pasdar which looks a bit unclean.
So this is a more elegant way to do it.
And then there are also other methods like Singleton lists which were written in just hundreds of Singleton
map also which takes a key value pair of regions and map which has a single mocking.
OK so that's the singleton class.
Our next looks you'll get this method called less on modifiable collection.
OK.
So let's look at an modifiable collection.
So let's just say
it's just an modifiable.
OK.
Now this matter basically as the name suggests it returns send an modifiable view of the book collection
which means that it returns a collection.
But that particular connection is not modifiable.
OK.
You can not add any elements to it.
You can even modify it.
So it would be useful if you want to provide your client next to you or is an API.
Your clients are accessing your methods.
And if you want to provide only read access and you are in denial collections so you might be using
some collections within your core implementation.
But if you want to provide on the read only access then you can make use of this method.
And with that they can only read the elements of your collection but there will never be able to modify
the collection.
So let's just go ahead and actually try this or let's just print this once.
OK so if you want to search for something say
so you want to search for Annita
on it it's true.
OK.
So here in this case when the executor remore on John Mustoe got deleted.
So let's just go ahead and actually add John and it should give us an error because this is an modifiable
.
So let's do this.
OK so John is not there but we are trying to get him and we try to do this sort whosay unsupported operation
exception.
So you can never do it but you can do something like this.
This can be possible.
You can add something to the list here and then the element will get added to the on modifiable collection
return collection.
And as you say
if I copy this suit to you on it now you can see that John has been on it.
It's just that using this particular reference you cannot add anything normally to your clients.
You would just do it under this reference.
OK so this is not accessible anyhow.
So but this is just for your information.
So far all that debate is implemented is it uses a technical composition and forwarding.
We may discuss it later in a separate item in a separate lesson.
But the way it works is for all the read operations it will just delegate the control to the internalness
but for all other operations it will run unsupported operation exception.
Next issue could the court will hear this and this is creating an instance of an modifiable collection
and if you look at a modifiable collection you can see that all of these are real operations.
And if you invoke them it is actually invoking the the enclosed Amato's the the metal from the end glose
Plus which is which is the input parameter.
OK so that is just simply forwarding.
If you can more easily it's going to invoke the easy method and of the input.
OK so I'm just quoting the control bark for other methods.
Like if you want to do it during that duration if you are calling monitor echoes the unsupported operation
exception OK.
Even for our clothes on supported operation exception.
So that's called us imposition on forwarding.
I need to just the decorator pattern on later where we will most likely discuss an item from Africa
to Java where they will get back to this particular class.
And that's about it.
So just go ahead and look at the API iron when you're looking at the API.
You may see some methods that start with the key but empty like empty list on those matters will be
discussed in a subsequent lesson where we will be discussing an item from Effective Java undoctored
.
But very briefly not super important but I will be discussing that on other than that you may also find
some moderates which started the T-Bird check.
I'm going probably about them after we are done with generics.
You may come back and look at those methods on that because they related to generics by that related
to type safety.
But once again I don't think those are that important maintenance.
Finally there are some methods synchronized methods which start with a key and organized on those very
well.
And if you look on the chapter that's about it.
Thank you.
And you can find a code in the resource section.
Happy coding